Q1:What is a Media Query in CSS, and what is its purpose?
  A media query in CSS is a feature that allows you to apply different styles 
  to a webpage based on various factors such as the device's screen size, resolution,
 orientation, and even the user's preferred color scheme. It is a powerful tool for
 creating responsive web designs that adapt to different viewing contexts.

The purpose of media queries is to enable web developers to create styles that are
 specifically tailored to different devices and conditions. By using media queries, 
 you can adjust the layout, design, and functionality of your website to provide an 
 optimal user experience on a wide range of devices, from desktop computers to smartphones and tablets.

Media queries are defined using the @media rule in CSS. 
Here's an example of a media query that targets screens with
 a maximum width of 600 pixels:

 @media (max-widtH 600px){

 }

Q2 How do you define a media query in CSS?
   To define a media query in CSS, you use the @media rule followed by a condition that determines when
   the styles should be applied. Here's the short syntax:

   @media condition {

   }
   The condition can be based on factors like screen size, resolution, or orientation. For example:
    @media (max-width: 600px) {

   }
   You can combine multiple conditions using logical operators like and, or, and not. Within the media 
   query block, you write the CSS rules that will apply when the conditions are met.

Q3:Explain the concept of Breakpoints in Responsive Web Design and How They are used in Media Queries.

In responsive web design, breakpoints refer to specific screen widths at which the layout of a webpage
 needs to adapt or change to provide an optimal viewing experience. Breakpoints are used in media queries
  to define different sets of CSS rules that will be applied at specific screen sizes.

Here's a brief explanation of how breakpoints are used in media queries:

1.Determine breakpoints: The first step is to determine the breakpoints for your responsive design.
 These breakpoints should align with common device screen sizes or logical points where the layout 
 needs adjustment.

2.Define media queries: Using the @media rule, you define media queries with conditions based on screen
 size or other factors. Each media query corresponds to a specific breakpoint.

3.Apply CSS rules: Within each media query block, you write CSS rules that will be applied when the conditions
  of that particular breakpoint are met. These rules can modify the layout, adjust font sizes, hide or show 
  elements, or make any necessary design changes to accommodate the specific screen size.

4.Cascading effect: Media queries are read and applied from top to bottom in the CSS file. It's common to start
  with the default styles for smaller screens and gradually add media queries for larger screens. This way, the
  styles defined at smaller breakpoints will cascade upwards and be overridden by styles at larger breakpoints.

  Q.4 What is the purpose of using Media Queries for Print Media?

  The purpose of using media queries for print media is to provide a customized and optimized layout when a webpage
  is printed or saved as a PDF. By utilizing media queries specific to print media, you can adjust the styling,
  formatting, and content presentation to suit the requirements of physical or digital printouts.

  Here's a brief overview of the purpose of using media queries for print media:

  1.Layout customization: Media queries for print media enable you to modify the layout
   of the webpage to fit the constraints of printed pages. This includes adjusting margins,
   page breaks, and page orientation (e.g., portrait or landscape) for a better print experience.

  2.Content optimization: Media queries allow you to selectively show or hide certain elements when
   printing. This enables you to remove unnecessary components like navigation menus, advertisements,
    or interactive features that are not relevant or practical for printouts.

 3.Text formatting: Media queries for print media can be used to fine-tune text formatting for better
  readability on printed pages. You can adjust font sizes, line heights, and other typographic aspects
   to ensure the content is legible and visually appealing in a printed format

4.Color adjustments: Print media media queries allow you to modify color styles specifically for printed
 output. You can convert background colors to white, change text colors, or apply other adjustments to 
 ensure the content is suitable for monochrome or limited color printing.

 By leveraging media queries for print media, you can enhance the printability of your webpages, providing
  users with well-structured, optimized, and visually appealing printouts or saved PDF documents.

  Q.5 What is the purpose of the orientation media feature?
  The purpose of the orientation media feature is to target and apply
  specific CSS rules based on the orientation of the device's screen.
  It allows web developers to customize the layout and design of a webpage
  based on whether the device is in a portrait or landscape orientation.

  In short, the orientation media feature helps ensure that the webpage's design
  and content adapt appropriately to the user's device orientation, providing an
   optimized user experience. For example, you can adjust the layout to display 
  content in a single column for portrait orientation and utilize a multi-column 
  layout for landscape orientation. This feature is particularly useful for responsive
 web design to accommodate different viewing contexts and device orientations.

